When it comes to modding I not great, in fact this is my first mod ever for any game. Most of the time if the game has a Map Editor I'll make may own maps/stories to go with them but only doing the basics. I'll be happy to help with the stoy line when I can, for now if you would like to help, read the list below to understand what I would like to use/see.

Things to do:
Once galaxy has more star systems the removal of the Temp Hole wormhole and a star system change for Temp Hole well be needed.

Images:
Outfit Images for the SathArky outfits.
Green kind of plant like thrust image to use in 'flare sprite' for the Lem'Iru engines.
Plant movement sound that is kind of space like for the 'flare sound' on the Lem'Iru engines.
Different types of space like seeds for the 'thumbnail' on Lem'Iru outfits.
Better sprites for the ship that grows, the "Frosta". can't really grow tho :( wish they could.. but this is good.

Outfits/Ships:
The Lem'Iru outfit E.E.E.S needs to take hull away form the ship that uses it.
More Outfits and Ships for both Lem'Iru and SathArky people for the Story line.

Missions:
Adding jobs to the Lem'Iru people so you don't just have trade.
If you see any spelling grammar mistakes please fix them or post to the steam guide.
More story line for both SathArky and Lem'Iru people.

Story paths:
SathArky want your ship for all it's tec, you well not give it to them. They ask for you to get them bring meat, so that when you open you cargo hold they can get in, but you do something that they did not expect. After XX years the finaly make their own hyperdrive, new ships and better weapons (ships are now able to be captured).

You find out the Lem'Iru are not form this galaxy, and they rode on the backs of (a pod) galactic whales (fully grown "planet size whales") which they would like you to find with some of the Lem'Iru people on your ship, so that the Lem'Iru people may thank them, and or help them, leading you to why the Lem'Iru are the way they are and where they trully come form. Some of the Lem'Iru people would like to explore other worlds around where you are form (these are jobs, and the young are not aloud to go exploring). After XX years when the SathArky get hyperdrives, the Lem'Iru ask for your help leading to more powerfull weapons and Frostas that are more aggressive, with less cargo room and more weapon room, and with more hull and shields.

--------
Balancing the SathArky and Lem'Iru with the over all game play. 
SathArky must always have weaker less advanced ships but more destructive weapons.
Lem'Iru well always have ships that are more capable, but do to the lack of Lem'Iru wars weapons and outfits are not that great.
--------

If or when this mod becomes a permanent part of the game, I well still help to form the story of these 2 species.